Singaporean Mahjong scoring rules
The Singaporean Mahjong scoring rules are similar to that of the Chinese Old style / Hong Kong system,
but accounts for the different set of tiles used.



Contents
Tile system
     Suited Tiles
     Honour Tiles
     Bonus (flower/animal) Tiles
Scoring points
   Triplet of any Dragon Tile (元 yuán)
     Winds (风fēng)
     Animal Tiles
         Instant payment
     Flower Tiles
     Flower tile matching the Seat Wind (正花)
         Instant payment
     Complete flower group (一台花)
        Instant payment
     Two complete flower groups (花胡)
        (i) All Flowers & Seasons (八仙过海)
        Instant payment
        (ii) Robbing the Eighth (七抢一)
     Triplets Hand
          Triplets Hand (对对胡/碰碰胡)
         Hidden Treasure (四暗刻/坎坎胡)
     Suits
         Half Flush (混一色 or 半色)
         Full Flush (清一色)
         Nine Gates (九连宝灯)
         Mixed Terminals (混么九/混老头)
         Pure Terminals (清么九/清老头)
         All Honour (字一色)
     Sequence Hand (平胡)
     Winning on Replacement Tile (花上,杠上)
     Robbing the Kong (抢杠)
     Winning on the Last Available Tile (海底捞月)
    Pure Green Suit (绿一色)
    Three Lesser Scholars (小三元)
    Four Lesser Blessings (小四喜)
    Three Great Scholars (大三元)
    Four Great Blessings (大四喜)
    Thirteen Wonders (十三幺)
    Other special scenarios
       Eighteen Arhats/Four Kongs (十八罗汉 shí bā luó hàn)
        Heavenly Hand (天胡 tiān hú)
        Earthly Hand (地胡 dì hú)
        Humanly Hand (人胡 rén hú)
        Fully Concealed Hand (门清 mén qīng)
        Chicken Hand (鸡胡 ji hú / 推倒胡 tuī dǎo hú)

Paying for all players
   Dragon Tile Set Scenario (包三元)
    Wind Tile Set Scenario (包四喜)
    Point Limit Scenario (包滿貫)
    Full Flush Scenario (包清一色/包字一色)
    Pure Green Suit Scenario (包绿一色)
    Pure Terminals Scenario (包清老头)
    Eighteen Arhats Scenario (包十八罗汉)
    Fresh Tile Discard (生牌) Scenarios
        Definition of 'Fresh tile' (生牌 shēng-pái)
        Fresh Tile Discard Kong Scenario (包杠)
        Fresh Tile Mahjong Scenario (包生)
    Wrong Winning Claim Scenario (诈胡)
Other Penalties
   Short Hand (小相公 xiǎo xiàng gōng)
    Long Hand (大相公 dà xiàng gōng)
    Sacred Discard & Missed Discard Prohibition Rules
       Sacred Discard (回头牌 huí-tóu-pái)
        Missed Discard (过水牌 guò-shuǐ-pái)

See also
References
External links


Tile system
The Singaporean Mahjong tile system consists of 148 tiles[1] due to the additional Animal tile set, thus
slightly different from that of other regional Mahjong tile-sets. Therefore, the rules of the game somewhat
vary from other scoring systems in the region. The stacking of tiles will be 19 stacks for the dealer (East)
and the player opposite (West), 18 stacks for the rest. The Dead Wall (王牌wáng-pái) is 15 tiles. The tile set
is described as follows:


Suited Tiles

These tiles run from One to Nine. There are 4 of each tile in every set.

The dots suit (Chinese: 筒子; pinyin: tǒngzǐ)




The bamboo suit (Chinese: 索子; pinyin: suǒzǐ)




The character suit (simplified Chinese: 万子; traditional Chinese: 萬子; pinyin: wànzǐ)




Honour Tiles

Honour Tiles (Chinese: 字 牌 ; pinyin: zìpái/Chinese: 大 牌 ; pinyin: dàpái) consists of 4 Wind tiles & 3
Dragon tiles.

Wind tiles (simplified Chinese: 四风牌; traditional Chinese: 四風牌; pinyin: sìfēngpái)




From left to right: East, South, West, North

Dragon tiles (三元牌, pinyin sān yuán pái)




From left to right: Red Dragon, Green Dragon, White Dragon


Bonus (flower/animal) Tiles

Flower set (花牌 huā pái) and Season set (季牌 jì pái)
From left to right: Plum, Orchid, Chrysanthemum, Bamboo, Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter

Animal Tiles (禽兽牌qín shòu pái / 动物牌dòng wù pái)




From left to right: Cat, Rat, Rooster, Centipede


Scoring points
Points (台) are scored from the difficulty of gathering the winning hand. If monetary rewards (and losses)
are involved, it is common that playing parties will agree upon a monetary value awarded to a one-point
winning hand. Subsequently, for each additional point scored, this value is accordingly doubled.

There is a typical maximum scoring limit of five points, though this has to be agreed among players. This
point limit (simply known as the limit), and will be used to describe the points awarded by certain tile-
combinations from now on. In other words, a certain tile combination that awards the limit means that it
scores the maximum number of points, as agreed upon before the game.

For example, assume that players agree on a value of S$1 for a one-point winning hand. A two-point
winning hand thus has a value of S$2, a three-point hand with a value of $4, up to a limit of $16 for a five-
point winning hand.

Furthermore, the party who is guilty of discarding the tile which another party then takes to complete a
winning hand has to pay double the agreed payout. Another situation where the winning player receives
double the agreed payout is when he draws the winning tile by himself/herself i.e. Self-Pick (自摸zì-mō).

The following table summarizes the payouts, based on an assumed base payout of S$1 for a one-point
winning hand.

 Points (台) scored   Losing players each pay       Guilty player pays   Winning player gains

 1                   S$1                           S$2                  S$4
 2                   S$2                           S$4                  S$8
 3                   S$4                           S$8                  S$16
 4                   S$8                           S$16                 S$32
 5 (Limit)           S$16                          S$32                 S$64


In the event that the winning player draws the winning tile by himself/herself, Self-Pick (自摸zì-mō), the
payout is as follows:
 Points (台) scored   All players each pay   Winning player gains

 1                   S$2                    S$6
 2                   S$4                    S$12
 3                   S$8                    S$24
 4                   S$16                   S$48
 5 (Limit)           S$32                   S$96


Another common mahjong payout among younger Singaporeans involves 'shooter pays all' whereby the
person who discards the winning tile will have to compensate for the rest of the players. However for this
rule, certain rules like 'Fresh Tile Mahjong Scenario (包生)' and '包满台' etc do not come in effect as the
loser will have to pay for everyone when he/she discards the winning tile. Some Singaporeans have this
particular rule whereby the person who 自摸 the winning tile shall be compensated an additional $2 on top
of what everyone has to pay.

                                     3/6 Payout Chart

                                            If zi mo (自摸)                If $2 zi mo (自摸)
 Points (台) scored   Shooter pays
                                    everyone pays                  is in effect

 1                   $4             $2                             $4
 2                   $7             $3                             $5
 3                   $11            $5                             $7
 4                   $20            $10                            $12
 5 (Limit)           $40            $20                            $22


1/2 Payout Chart

                                            If zi mo (自摸)                If $2 zi mo (自摸)
 Points (台) scored   Shooter pays
                                    everyone pays                  is in effect

 1                   $4             $2                             $4
 2                   $8             $4                             $6
 3                   $16            $8                             $10
 4                   $32            $16                            $18
 5 (Limit)           $64            $32                            $34


The payout for special hands will be double, no matter the winner zi mo (自摸) or one of the player shoots.


Triplet of any Dragon Tile (元 yuán)

Having a triplet of any Dragon Tile (元yuán) scores 1 point. This triplet can be obtained by Pong (碰pèng),
Kong (杠;槓gàng), or simply having these 3 tiles in your hidden hand.
                      or                           or



Winds (风fēng)

Having a triplet of the seat wind or the prevailing wind scores 1 point. This triplet can be obtained by Pung
(碰pèng), Kong (杠gàng ), or simply having these three tiles in your hidden hand.


                      or                           or                  or


If the Prevailing Wind (圈风quān-fēng) happens to coincide with your Seat Wind (门风mén-fēng), and you
manage to obtain a triplet of that wind, you score 2 points. For example, if the prevailing wind is East and a
player whose seat wind is East, a triplet of East by the player will score 2 points upon Mahjong.

If there is a triplet of both the Seat Wind (门风mén-fēng) and the Prevailing Wind (圈风quān-fēng), you
score 2 points. For example, if the Prevailing Wind (圈风quān-fēng) is East and a player whose Seat Wind
(门风mén-fēng) is South, a triplet of East and a triplet of South by the player will score 2 points (1 point for
each triplet) upon Mahjong.


Animal Tiles




Each animal tile obtained scores 1 point. One extra point (for a total of 5) is awarded if all 4 animals are
collected.


Instant payment

It is commonly accepted that there will be a one-time payout by all playing parties to the party who collects
either

a) Both the cat tile and the mouse tile.

b) Both the chicken tile and the centipede tile.

The above two events are known as yǎo-dào (咬到). Literally it means 'Bitten' in English.

c) All the four animal tiles. This generally also earns double of the agreed one-time payout.

咬到 has 2 different meanings in the game. When any player opens their tiles in the beginning of the game
and sees the combination of a) and/or b) and c), he will be considered to have 暗咬, and compensation will
usually be $4 for each combination of a), b) or c) (all these are cumulative). If after replenishment of tiles
(补花bǔ-huā) happened and any of the a), b) or c) happens, then compensation will usually be $2 for each
combination of a), b) or c) (all these are cumulative).
Note 1.1.1: One-time refers to each instance whenever any player collects any of the above. In other words,
if player A collects set (c) in the current game, he will receive the payout from all other parties immediately.
In the event that player A collects the same set in the next game, he will again have to be compensated as
well. This compensation will take place each time any set described above is collected.

Note 1.1.2: This payout is also one-time because the player who obtains the set combination(s) will not be
re-compensated for these combinations at the end of the game, regardless of the result.

Note 1.1.2.1: However, pertaining to the above, the points scored by obtaining animal tiles will still be in
effect. In other words, if player A collects set(c), he will be rewarded with an instant payout. In the event
that he wins that same instance of the game as well, he will have scored 5 points by virtue of having 4
animal tiles, on top of any other points that he scores with his winning hand.

Note 1.2: The payout above is cumulative. This means that if a player collects set (c), he will have to be
compensated for set (a), set (b) and set (c).

Note 1.3: A commonly agreed payout is, assuming a base payout of S$1 for a one-point winning hand, S$2
(which means collecting set (c) will earn a payout of $2+$2+$4). In other words, the payout can be pegged
to that of a one-point 'Self-Pick' (自摸zì-mō). This must however be separately agreed-upon before the start
of the game.

Note 1.4: In the special event that set (a) or set (b) is collected immediately at the start of the game (even
before the 'Replacement Tile' (补花bǔ-huā) event), the payout is again doubled. With reference to Note 1.3,
if a player collects set (c) in this special case, he will receive a payout of $2*2 + $2*2 + $4.


Flower Tiles


Flower tile matching the Seat Wind (正花)

Each flower tile that matches a player's seat wind scores one point (正花zhèng-huā). Other flower tiles won't
score any point. (偏花piān-huā)


 1. East player:


 2. South player:


 3. West player:


 4. North player:



Instant payment

It is commonly accepted that there will be a one-time payout by all playing parties to the party who collects
both flowers (red and blue) that match the player's Seat Wind. This is a 'Bitten' (咬到yǎo-dào) event. This
payout is equivalent to obtaining a set of cat-and-mouse tile, or chicken-and-centipede tile. Refer to the
discussion above. This will earn the payout agreed for a 'Bitten' (咬到 yǎo-dào) event. The double payout
scheme applies when the collection of both flowers occurs before the 'Replacement Tile' ( 补 花 bǔ-huā)
event. Refer to the discussion above. This will earn the payout agreed for an 'Concealed Kong' (暗杠 àn-
gàng) event.

Note: Not everybody plays with all these 'Bitten' ( 咬 到 yǎo-dào) events so it is best to confirm with
everybody before commencing your mahjong game. Some play with 'Bitten' (咬到 yǎo-dào) events only for
the Animal tiles, and some do not play with any 'Bitten' (咬到 yǎo-dào) events at all.


Complete flower group (一台花)

A complete group of 4 flower tiles of the same colour scores a total of 2 points, 1 for the flower tile that
matches the player's seat wind, and 1 for collecting all four.


                             or



Instant payment

It is commonly accepted that there will be a one-time payout by all playing parties to the party who collects
the complete set of flowers of the same colour. This is a 'Concealed Kong' (暗杠 àn-gàng) event.

This payout is equivalent to obtaining a set of cat-mouse-chicken-centipede tile. In other words, this will
earn the payout agreed for a 'Concealed Kong' (暗杠àn-gàng) event. Refer to the discussion above.


Two complete flower groups (花胡)

Any player who collects 2 complete groups of 4 flower tiles (8 in total) either by 'Self-Pick' (自摸zì-mō) or
by 'robbing', has achieved a '8 Flower Tile-set' (花胡huā-hù) that scores the limit. Because of its rarity, there
is a lack of agreement as to the number of points actually scored by this hand. However, in practice, this
combination simply scores the maximum number of points.




(i) All Flowers & Seasons (八仙过海)

Any player who collects 2 complete groups of 4 flower tiles (8 in total) all by himself i.e. 'Self-Pick' (自摸
zì-mō) is called 'All Flowers & Seasons' or 'Eight Immortals' ( 八 仙 过 海 bā-xiān-guò-hǎi), a type of '8
Flower Tile-set' (花胡huā-hù). The combination of hidden cards held by the player does not matter at all,
and the game is considered to have been won and game is ended as a win for the player.

However, some players are notably particular regarding the above point. If any player collects the complete
'8 Flower Tile-set', he wins the game, but he should never reveal his hidden cards to anyone. This follows
from the fact that the player has not won the game by virtue of his hidden cards, which should be the case. If
the player with the complete set of flowers display his hidden hand to the rest, and it is not a hand that
fulfills any winning combination, he is considered to have cheated, or 'Fake Hand' (诈胡 zhà-hú) and must
instead compensate the rest of the parties. The point to note is that the player who collects the complete '8
Flower Tile-set' should immediately close his hidden cards and declare himself to have won the game.
Instant payment

The player who completes the flower set has triggered 3 events, on top of winning the game. He has
gathered

 1. Both flowers (red and blue) which corresponds to his seat wind. This is a 'Bitten' (咬到 yǎo-
    dào) event.
 2. A complete set of red flowers
 3. A complete set of blue flowers.

All 3 events above are liable for one-time compensation by the rest of the playing parties, if the event
themselves are not compensated already. This is on top of the payout given to the winning party by winning
the game.


(ii) Robbing the Eighth (七抢一)

If a player has already drawn 7 flower tiles, and any of the other three players draws the last flower tile, the
player with the 7 tiles is considered to have won the game by "robbing" the last flower tile as a discard of
the player that draws the last flower tile. This is called 'Robbing the Eighth' (七抢一 qī-qiǎng-yī).

The player who drew the last flower tile, strictly speaking, did not discard the tile. However, due to the
immense probabilistic difficulty of achieving a complete '8 Flower Tile-set' (花胡huā-hù), such a situation
described above is considered a sufficient condition for a '8 Flower Tile-set' (花胡huā-hù) event.

Note 1: The player who drew the last flower tile, and thus causing the player with 7 flower tiles to win the
game, will thus be the 'guilty' party, and is subjected to the same payout scheme described in Table 1.1.

Note 2: It is extremely important that, in the event that a player amasses 7 flower tiles, this player must
declare that he/she demands an inspection of everyone's hidden hand at the end of the game and describe the
'Pao' (包 bāo) condition in this scenario which is described below. In the event if the eighth flower did not
appear in the course of the game, and the game ends:

(i) in a stalemate (荒牌 huāng pái) with 15 un-drawn tiles remaining, the player who amasses the 7 flower
tiles must just before the last tile (which is the 16th tile from the back) is drawn, declare that he will conduct
an inspection of everyone's hidden hand.

(ii) with some other player won the game, the player who amasses the 7 flower tiles must immediately
declare that he/she will conduct an inspection of everyone's hidden hand, so to prevent anyone from
dismantling their tiles away.

After this declaration, the rest of the playing parties should reveal their hidden hand to the declaring player.
If he/she discovers that one of the parties has been keeping the eighth flower within his hidden hand, he/she
is considered to have won the game with a '8 Flower Tile-set' (花胡huā-hù), even if the game has already
ended.

The 'guilty' party can either be made to pay for everyone's losses (known as 'Pao' (包bāo)), or pay as if the
game was won mid-way, as it should be. This will depend on the agreement between all playing parties. Any
party who does not heed the declaration of card inspection and proceeds to dismantle the tiles upon the
ending of the game (so that it will be impossible for the declaring player to inspect his cards) will also be
deemed to be guilty of holding on the eight flower tile in secret, and the declaring player is considered to
have won the game with a '8 Flower Tile-set' (花胡huā-hù).
Note 3: As described above, the winning party should not disclose his hidden hand, in the event of a '8
Flower Tile-set' ( 花 胡 huā-hù), if it does not fulfill the criteria of any winning combinations. If he does,
some players may consider this to be cheating, or 'Fake Hand' (诈胡 zhà-hú), and the winning-turned-losing
party must compensate the rest of the playing parties.


Triplets Hand

Triplets Hand (对对胡/碰碰胡)

A 'Triplets Hand' (对对胡 duì-duì-hú or 碰碰胡 pèng-pèng-hù) scores 2 points.




The above is an example of a hand that satisfies a 碰碰胡 pèng-pèng-hù combination that scores two points,
that is, any 4 triplets and any pair of tiles (eyes) to fulfill this combination. It does not matter if your hand of
tiles is a mixture of Exposed Pong (碰 pèng) tiles and triplets held within your hidden hand.


Hidden Treasure (四暗刻/坎坎胡)

However a special condition arises when this combination is held entirely within the winning party's hidden
hand. That is, the winning party fulfills this combination with a Self-Pick (自摸 zì-mō), and has no exposed
'Pong' (碰 pèng) tiles or 'Exposed Kong' ( 明 杠 mìng-gàng). In other words, the winning party drew and
obtained every tile in this combination himself. This hand is refer to as 'Hidden Treasure' (四暗刻 sì-àn-kè
or 坎坎胡 kǎn-kǎn-hù) is extremely rare and it is generally awarded the limit.

Note 1: To achieve the winning combination of Hidden Treasure, the winning party can only perform
'Concealed Kong' (暗杠 àn-gàng) if he has 4-of-a-kind of a particular tile. He cannot perform an 'Exposed
Kong' (明杠 mìng-gàng) on any discarded tile from the rest of the players. If he does, the winning hand can
only be considered as a 'Triplets Hand'.

Note 2: To achieve a winning combination of Hidden Treasure, the winning party must complete the game
with a 'Self-Pick' (自摸 zì-mō). It is immaterial whether he/she has already 4 hidden triplets, and is awaiting
one single tile to complete the eye, or otherwise.

Note 3: In some playing circles, it is sufficient to have 4 hidden triplets and go mahjong with a single tile,
and still be able to qualify for this hand as all the 4 triplets are still in the hand.


Suits

Half Flush (混一色 or 半色)

A 'Half Flush Hand' (混一色 hún-yī-sè or 半色bàn-sè) scores 2 points.
The above are examples of combinations which fulfill the 'Half Flush' criteria. This combination simply
requires

1) a pure set of tiles from one single suit either from the 'Character' (万子), 'Dots' (筒子) or 'Bamboo' (索子)
tile sets, plus

2) any set of tiles from the 'Winds Tiles' (四风牌 sì fēng pái) or 'Dragon Tiles' (三元牌 sān yuán pái) suit.


Full Flush (清一色)

If the set of tiles are entirely from one single suit only , then this combination is known as Full Flush Hand
(清一色 qīng-yī-sè). This combination is awarded 4 points.




Again, special conditions can arise from this.

(i) Full Flush Sequence Hand (清一色平胡)

If the set of tiles are entirely from one single suit, and it also fulfill the Sequence Hand, then this special
combination is known as Full Flush Sequence Hand (清一色平胡). Due to its extreme difficulty, in addition
to the probabilistic difficulty of not drawing any animal or flower tiles, it is generally awarded 10 points, or
the limit.




Full Flush Lesser Sequence Hand ( 清 一 色 小 平 胡 ), in which the winning party has drawn flowers or
animals, wins a total of 5 points, 1 for the Lesser Sequence Hand (小平胡) combination and 4 for Full Flush
Hand (清一色) combination.

(ii) Full Flush Triplets Hand (清一色碰碰胡)

Another special condition can arise from having a hand of all triplets and a pair of eyes, either from the wàn-
zǐ (万子), tòng-zǐ (筒子) or suò-zǐ (索子) tile sets. This Full Flush Triplets Hand (清一色碰碰胡) will score
8 points (2 for the hand itself, 2 for a Triplets Hand (碰碰胡) combination, and 4 for a Full Flush Hand (清
一色) combination), or the limit.




Nine Gates (九连宝灯)

(iii) Another special condition can arise from amassing the 13 tiles as shown below, either from the
Character (万子wàn-zǐ), the Dots (筒子tòng-zǐ) or the Bamboo (索子 suò-zǐ) tile sets.
Notice that these 13 tiles do not constitute a winning hand. However, any player, by virtue of having these
13 tiles, can simply win the game with any discarded tile from that same suit. The player can chow to obtain
the sequences, or pong to obtain the ones and nines triplets. As long as a player amasses these 13 tiles, and
wins the game with any tile of the same suit, he will have completed this rare 'Nine Gates Hand' (九连宝灯
jǐu-lián-bǎo-dēng), which awards the limit.


Mixed Terminals (混么九/混老头)

A Mixed Terminals Hand (混么九hún-yāo-jǐu/混老头hún-lǎo-tou), or commonly known as dà-pái-yī-jǐu
(大牌一九) scores 4 points (2 for triplets and 2 for mixed terminals).




This is a mixture of

1. ones or nines (thus, terminals) from either of the wàn-zǐ (万子), tòng-zǐ (筒子) or suò-zǐ (索子)

or

2. either of the Winds tiles (风 fēng) or Dragon tiles (元 yuán).

It must also fulfill the Triplets Hand ( 碰 碰 胡 pèng-pèng-hù) criteria. However, special situations, as
described below, can arise from this.


Pure Terminals (清么九/清老头)

The 'Pure Terminals Hand' (清么九qīng-yāo-jǐu/清老头qīng- lǎo-tou) is made up entirely of ones or nines
from either of the wàn-zǐ (风子), tòng-zǐ (筒子) or suò zi (索子) tilesets. This condition is also known as 一
九yī-jǐu. Due to its extreme rarity, this is awarded the limit.




All Honour (字一色)

The All Honours Hand (字一色 zì-yī-sè) is made up entirely of tiles from either the Winds tiles (风 fēng) or
Dragon tiles (元 yuán) tiles. This condition is also known as 大字 dà-zì. Due to its extreme rarity, this is
awarded the limit.




Sequence Hand (平胡)
A Sequence Hand (平胡 píng-hù) scores 4 points. In addition, the winning player has to be waiting for at
least 2 different tiles in order to win.

A 'Sequence Hand' is one where a player obtains a winning hand of 4 sets of sequences (順子 shùn zǐ) and 1
pair of tiles, all from either the Character (万子 wàn-zǐ), Dots (筒子 tòng-zǐ) or Bamboo (索子 sùo-zǐ) tile
sets. (However, special allowance is given to the nature of the pair of tiles. These pair of tiles can be from
the Character tiles, Dots tiles or the Bamboo tiles, or any Winds (风 fēng) which is neither the Prevailing
Wind (圈风 quān-fēng) nor the Seat Wind (门风 mén-fēng) of the winning player.

The act of forming a melded sequence is called 'Chow' (吃 chī).




A 'Sequence Hand' is considered difficult to amass because winning with this hand requires that (i) the
player does not draw any animal or flower tiles. (ii) The player cannot win on a discarded tile by another
player, if that discarded tile is an in-between tile (嵌张 qiàn zhāng), edge tile (边张 biān zhāng), or only one
tile required to complete the pair (单钓 dān diào), i.e. All Single Wait (一飞 yī fēi / 单听 dān tīng) is not
acceptable for this hand. Note: 2-Sided Wait or more is acceptable for this hand in Singapore. For example,
6, 7, 8 & 9 of the Dots tiles, waiting for 6 & 9 of the Dots tiles to win by forming a pair.

Example: A player has the seven of the Dots tiles and the nine of the Dots tiles, he requires the eight of the
Dots tiles to complete the winning hand. He cannot declare his combination of tiles to be a 'Sequence Hand'
if another player discards the eight of the Dots tiles. That is, the four point awarded to the Sequence Hand
does not count. He can, however, still win the game by virtue of other points he has already scored, by
drawing animals for example. But, if he manages to draws the eight of the Dots tiles by himself (自摸 zì-
mō), his winning combination is considered to be a 'Sequence Hand'.

The point here to note is that, a player waiting for either an in-between tile, edge tile (an eight and a nine,
waiting for a seven) or a single tile to complete the required pair can only claim a 'Sequence Hand' if he
Self-Pick (自摸 zì-mō) that particular tile. If he is waiting for any two tiles (a two and a three, waiting for
either a one or a four) to complete the winning hand, he can claim these tiles from any party who discards it.

A special situation exists where a player cannot claim a 'Sequence Hand' even if he Self-Pick (自摸 zì-mō)
the last required tile. This situation happens when a player melded all 4 sequences required by discards from
other player, and is left with a single tile. In this event it is clear that he is awaiting that single tile to
complete his hand, therefore it cannot be considered a 'Sequence Hand'.

If a player manages to amass a combination of cards that adheres to the requirements set above, but
has drawn flowers and/or animal tiles, then he can only claim a 'Lesser Sequence Hand' (小平胡 xiǎo-
píng-hù / 臭平胡 chòu-píng-hù), which awards only 1 point, on top of any points awarded to him by
the flower and/or animal tiles.


Winning on Replacement Tile (花上,杠上)

A special event known as 'Winning on Replacement Tile For Flower' (花上 huā-shàng) scores one point.

This event happens when a party, who is waiting for a tile to complete his winning hand (also known as the
'Ready Hand' (听牌 tīng-pái)), draws a flower and/or animal. This will require him to replace the drawn
flower and/or animal by drawing a 'Replacement Tile For Flower' (补花 bǔ-huā) from the end of the wall.
In the event that the tile drawn to replace the flower and/or animal is the tile needed to complete his winning
hand, he is considered to score a 'Winning on Replacement Tile For Flower' (花上 huā-shàng). This event
itself is worth one point, as mentioned above, in addition to any points scored by the combination of his
winning hand.

There exists a special event in which a player draws two flower and/or animal tiles in a row, and upon the
second consecutive 'Replacement Tile For Flower' ( 补 花 bǔ-huā), he draws the tile which he requires to
complete his winning hand. This event is known as 'Flower on Flower' ( 花 上 花 huā-shàng-huā). Some
players may choose to consider this as a special event which awards 5 points, but not others. There are also
some players who consider each consecutive 'Replacement Tile For Flower' (补花 bǔ-huā ), leading up to a
final 'Winning on Replacement Tile For Flower' (花上 huā-shàng), to contribute one additional point each.
For example, Player A draws 3 consecutive flower and/or animal tiles before finally obtaining the tile
required for a winning hand on the third 'Replacement Tile For Flower' (补花 bǔ-huā), he will have gotten 3
additional points for 3 consecutive 'Replacement Tile For Flower' (补花 bǔ-huā) followed by a 'Winning on
Replacement Tile For Flower' (花上 huā-shàng). The point scored for the above special events will have to
be agreed upon before the game.

In any of the above huā-shàng ( 花 上 ) event, it is immaterial whether the drawn flower matches the seat
number of the player's.

Another special event known as 'Winning on Replacement Tile For Kong' (杠上 gàng-shàng) scores one
point.

This event happens when a party, who is waiting for a tile to complete his winning hand (also known as the
'Ready Hand' (听牌 tīng-pái)), either

1) draws a tile which complete a 4-of-a-kind in his hidden hand, in which he can perform an 'Concealed
Kong' (暗杠 àn-gàng), or

2) has a 3-of-a-kind in his hidden hand, and any other player discards the last tile of that kind, in which he
can perform a 'Exposed Kong' (明杠 mìng-gàng), or

3) has a Pong (碰 pèng) triplet exposed, and draws the last tile of that kind himself, in which he can perform
a 'Exposed Kong' (明杠 mìng-gàng)

Any of the above 3 events will require him to replace the Kong (杠 gàng) by performing a by drawing a
'Replacement Tile For Kong' (补杠 bǔ-gàng). In the event that the tile drawn to replace the 'Kong' (杠 gàng)
is the tile needed to complete his winning hand, he is considered to score a 'Winning on Replacement Tile
For Kong' (杠上 gàng-shàng). This will event itself is worth one point, as mentioned above, in addition to
any points scored by the combination of his winning hand.

Instant payment

Note 1: It is common that an instant payout is given to the party who performs a 'Exposed Kong' (明杠mìng-
gàng), and the payout follows that of a yǎo-dào (咬到) event. For the performance of an 'Concealed Kong'
(暗杠 àn-gàng), it will generally earn double that of the 'Exposed Kong' (明杠 mìng-gàng), just like the
event of drawing a cat-mouse-chicken-worm set of tiles.

Note 1.1: However, in the event of a 'Robbing the Kong' (抢杠 qiǎng-gàng), the player who performs the
'Kong' (杠 gàng) need not be compensated, and instead will be the 'guilty' party who is considered to have
discarded that tile for the player performing a 'Robbing the Kong' ( 抢 杠 qiǎng-gàng). This event is
described in the next section.

A special event can also be triggered from a 'Winning on Replacement Tile For Kong' (杠上 gàng-
shàng). The sequence of events is as follows
1) Player A has a concealed triplet in his hand, and any other player discard the last of that tile, or

2) Player A has a concealed triplet in his hand, and he draws the last of that tile himself, or

3) Player A has an exposed triplet, and he draws the last of that tile himself

In all 3 scenarios above, he is able to perform a 'Kong' (杠 gàng) and must perform a 'Replacement Tile For
Kong' (补杠 bǔ-gàng). In the event that he draws a tile from this 'Replacement Tile For Kong' (补杠 bǔ-
gàng), in which he is already holding on to either

4) a concealed triplet of that tile in his hand, or

5) an exposed triplet of that tile,

he is then naturally able to perform another Kong (杠 gàng) and then another 'Replacement Tile For Kong'
(补杠 bǔ-gàng). If and only if Player A draws a replacement tile (from this particular second-in-a-row
'Replacement Tile For Kong' ( 补 杠 bǔ-gàng)) which he is able to complete a winning hand, he is
considered to have performed a 'Kong on Kong' ( 杠 杠 胡 gàng-gàng-hú). Due to the immense
probabilistic difficulty of such a feat, it is generally awarded 10 points, or the limit, whichever is the
smaller number.


Robbing the Kong (抢杠)

Robbing the Kong (抢杠 qiǎng-gàng) scores one point.

This event occurs when

1) a playing party has a 'Pong' (碰 pèng) triplet exposed,

2) and draws the last tile of that kind himself, and in which he

3) perform an Exposed Kong (明杠 mìng-gàng), and

4) another player, who is waiting for that very last tile of that kind to complete his own winning hand,

5) 'robs' the 'Kong' (杠 gàng) to complete his winning hand.

This exact sequence of events must occur for a 'Robbing the Kong' (抢杠 qiǎng-gàng) event to be triggered.
Note that 抢杠 can be for any combination in the hand i.e. it does not have to only be 平胡 or 臭平胡) to
win.

However if there are already 3 same tiles that has been 碰pèng by player A and player B is waiting for that
particular last tile to form his 平胡 hand and this happened to be an in between tile or corner tile (一万&二
万 waiting for 三万 or 七筒&九筒 and waiting for 八筒) , 抢杠 will only give the winning player 1 point
upon mahjong as the 平胡 rule is not in effect. However if player B is waiting for 2 tiles to form 平胡, a 抢
杠 will give him 5 points (4 for 平胡 and 1 for 抢杠).

Note that the other variant of 'Exposed Kong' (明杠 mìng-gàng) in which a player calls a "Kong' from a
discarded tile with a triplet in his hidden hand, does not count as 'Robbing the Kong' (抢杠 qiǎng-gàng).
The player who requires that last tile can still declare a win ( 胡 hù), but will not have deemed to have
performed a 'Robbing the Kong' (抢杠 qiǎng-gàng) event.
There is a special condition where 'Robbing the Kong' can be used to rob an 'Concealed Kong' (暗杠 an-
gang). The condition is that a particular player is waiting for his last tile to complete the Thirteen Wonders
(十三么). This is the only condition where 'Robbing the Kong' can be used to rob an 'Concealed Kong'.


Winning on the Last Available Tile (海底捞月)

'Winning on the Last Available Tile" scores 1 point. This event is also known as hái-dǐ-lāo-yuè (海底捞月),
literally "scooping the moon from the ocean bottom". The last available tile is the last 16th un-drawn tile
from un-drawn stack.

Note 1: There is a special condition in which "Winning on the Last Available Tile' does not trigger the hái-
dǐ-lāo-yuè ( 海 底 捞 月 ) event. This condition is fulfilled when the last 16th tile is drawn as a result of a
'Replacement Tile For Flower' (补花 bǔ-huā) or 'Replacement Tile For Kong' (补杠 bǔ-gàng) event.

Example 1. Player A draws the last 17th tile, which turns out to be a flower. He turn proceeds to perform a
'Replacement Tile For Flower' (补花 bǔ-huā) by drawing the last 16th tile. In the event that he wins with
that last tile, it will not be considered hái-dǐ-lāo-yuè (海底捞月).

Example 2. Player A draws the last 17th tile, which he does not want, and discards it. Player D performs a
gàng (杠), and 'Replacement Tile For Kong' (补杠 bǔ-gàng ) by drawing the last 16th tile. If Player D wins
on the last tile, it will not be considered hái-dǐ-lāo-yuè (海底捞月).

Example 3. Player A draws the last 18th tile, which turns out to be a flower. He draws a replacement tile, the
last 17th tile, and it turns out to be an animal. Finally, he draws the last 16th tile and completes his winning
hand. This will not be considered hái-dǐ-lāo-yuè (海底捞月).

However a special event may have been triggered, depending on the agreement of playing parties.
Refer to the above discussions on 'Winning on Replacement Tile' (花上,杠上).

Note 2: In some playing circles, the game is considered a draw if the last 16th tile is a Bonus Tile. No one-
time payout will be required, unless the player has gotten 8 flower tiles for the special hand.

Note 3: In some playing circles, 海底捞月 will only be considered if that tile is 一筒.


Pure Green Suit (绿一色)

A 'Pure Green Suit Hand' (绿一色 lǜ-yī-sè) scores four points instead of just two points for Mixed One Suit,
due to the increased difficulty. The hand only consist 2,3,4,6 or 8 of the bamboo suit (索子) plus the Green
Dragon as a pair or triplet. (Note: As for why it is called Pure Green Suit is that in the early days, all the
above tile carvings are painted green.)




Three Lesser Scholars (小三元)

The 'Three Lesser Scholars' (小三元 xiǎo-sān-yuán) scores three points (one for the eye pair, and two for
the pong/kong of the other two Dragon tiles).
Example 1:



Example 2:



Example 3:



Four Lesser Blessings (小四喜)

A 'Four Lesser Blessings' (小四喜 xiǎo-sì-xǐ) score three or four points (two for the hand itself, plus the
bonus points for a pong/kong of the prevailing wind and/or player wind).


Example 1:



Three Great Scholars (大三元)

A 'Three Great Scholars" ( 大 三 元 dà-sān-yuán) scores 10 points, or the limit, whichever is the smaller
number.




Note 1 : A common rule in Singapore dictates that any player who collects all 3 triplets of the 3 元 tiles,
either by having them in your hidden hand, or by performing Pong (碰 pèng) to obtain exposed triplets, can
declare himself to have fulfilled the 大三元 combination. The combination of the hidden hands, under this
rule, does not matter. Invoking this rule when a player collects all 3 triplets earns that player 5 points,
instead of 10.

Note 1.1 : Care must be taken by any player, who invokes the above rule, to conceal their hidden hand while
declaring the game to be won. Otherwise, if the hidden hand is revealed, certain players consider this to be
cheating, because the said party has not won the game by virtue of his entire hand of tiles, as it should be. If
such a situation arise, the winning-turned-losing party must compensate the rest of the playing parties.


Four Great Blessings (大四喜)

A 'Four Great Blessings' (大四喜 dà-sì-xǐ) score the limit (Generally, there appears to be a lack of agreement
as to the number of points actually scored by these hands. However, in practice, this combination simply
scores the maximum number of points).
Note 1 : For 'Four Great Blessings', a common rule in Singapore dictates that any player who collects all 4
triplets of the 4 individual Wind (风 fēng) tiles, either by having them in your hidden hand, or by performing
'Pong' (碰 pèng ) to obtain exposed triplets, can declare himself to have fulfilled the 大四喜 combination.
The combination of the hidden hand (more specifically, the last required pair of any tile) under this rule,
does not matter. Invoking this rule when a player collects all 4 triplets earns that player 10 points, instead of
the limit.

Note 1.1 : Care must be taken by any player, who invokes the above rule, to conceal their hidden hand while
declaring the game to be won. Otherwise, if the hidden hand is revealed, certain players consider this to be
cheating, because the said party has not won the game by virtue of his entire hand of tiles, as it should be. If
such a situation arise, the winning-turned-losing party must compensate the rest of the playing parties.


Thirteen Wonders (十三幺)
    The "Thirteen Wonders" or "Thirteen Orphans" (十三幺 shí-sān-yāo) Hand score thirteen
    points, or the limit, whichever is the smaller number.


                                                                                                + any tile in the

same set

This winning hand is considered to be one of the hardest to accomplish and therefore has priority to win
from a tile from any player's discard, superseding players in front of you who could have gamed from that
tile. Thirteen Wonders is the only hand that can snatch a 'Concealed Kong' (暗杠 àn-gàng). Furthermore, it
can supersede a self-made winning tile even if the practitioner is waiting for the same card as the self-made
winning tile (this only applies to pure Thirteen Wonders). Due to the immense difficulty in assembling this
hand, all players pay double that of the limit, regardless if the hand was won on a self-picked (自摸) tile or
not.


Other special scenarios

Eighteen Arhats/Four Kongs (十八罗汉 shí bā luó hàn)

This refers to the scenario where the player manages to 'Kong' (杠 gàng) four times. It results in the player
having 18 tiles excluding flower and animal tiles, hence its name. It also scores maximum points due to its
rarity.


Heavenly Hand (天胡 tiān hú)

This refers to the scenario where the first player, as the dealer, wins the round on the first turn (i.e. with the
tiles given after dealing and flower/animal/kong any and all etc... replacement needed without draw card).
Because of its extreme rarity, this criterion is often awarded the limit.


Earthly Hand (地胡 dì hú)

This refers to the scenario where a non-dealer wins from the dealer's first discard. Scenario 2 whereby a
non-dealer wins upon drawing the first card in the game. Because of its rarity, this criterion is often awarded
the limit.
Humanly Hand (人胡 rén hú)

This refers to the scenario where a non-dealer wins by discard within the first go around of the game before
his/her first draw & no exposed meld (except Concealed Kong) formed by anyone. Because of its rarity, this
criterion is often awarded the limit.


Fully Concealed Hand (门清 mén qīng)

This refers to the scenario where you do not eat or pong and draw all the tiles yourself, you must also self
draw your winning tile. This adds one point to your hand. Note: Not everybody plays with this rule so it is
best to confirm with everybody before commencing your mahjong game.


Chicken Hand (鸡胡 ji hú / 推倒胡 tuī dǎo hú)

This refer to the scenario where the Hand does not conform to any scoring pattern, no value Bonus tile and
no value 'Pong' ( 碰 pèng) etc. This Hand used to be played in Singapore but with the introduction of
Minimum Point Requirement (起胡 qǐ-hú) of one point in Singapore, this Hand has become invalid in most
playing circles.

Ever since the introduction of Minimum Point Requirement (起胡 qǐ-hú) of one point in Singapore, the only
low value hand is 'Lesser Sequence Hand' (小平胡), but due to many restrictions, it is not an easy hand as
well. Perhaps the reason why some players in Singapore started to introduce other low value hand in their
playing circle. For example, the Fully Concealed Hand (门清) above.


Paying for all players
High-risk discards are also an element of Singapore-style scoring, with the player making such a discard
paying for the other two losing players, in addition to their own (the other two losing players are vindicated -
they do not pay anyone anything). High-risk scenarios only occur when a player is visibly near victory, with
that player winning because of a high-risk discard.

The following is a typical list of high-risk scenarios:


Dragon Tile Set Scenario (包三元)

Player A has two Dragon Pongs or Kongs exposed. Player B discards a third Dragon and the Player A is
able to Pong/Kong it or complete an eye with it (and thereby winning), forming a third set of Dragons. If
Player A wins the game with Player B's discard or his own tile, Player B pays all winnings.

Example:


Player A's exposed melds:



High-risk discard would be:



Wind Tile Set Scenario (包四喜)
Same as Dragon Tile Set Scenario, but requires three exposed Wind sets and completing a fourth with a
discard.

Example:


Player A's exposed melds:



High-risk discard would be:



Note: Dragon tiles are also considered high-risk discard:


due to the possibility of a 'All Honours Hand' (字一色).


Point Limit Scenario (包滿貫)

Player A has one less than the maximum number of points (typically 4) exposed. Player B discards a Dragon
tile, a Prevailing Wind (圈风 quān-fēng) or a Player's Seat Wind (门风 mén-fēng) that is taken by A, thereby
making a total of the maximum number of points (typically 5). If Player A wins the game with Player B's
discard or his own tile, Player B pays all winnings. Another unique scenario is where Player A has two less
than the maximum number of points (typically 3) exposed. Player B discards the Wind tile that is both the
Prevailing Wind and the Player's Seat Wind, that is taken by A, thereby making a total of the maximum
number of points (typically 5). If Player A wins the game with Player B's discard or his own tile, Player B
pays all winnings. However for the scenario of shooter pay, Player B will only need to pay for all the
winnings if Player A 自摸. If Player B discarded Player A's tiles, he would only need to pay for 5 points (as
per usual).

Example:

The limit is 5 points. Player A already has 4 points on his exposed tiles. His seat wind is South and the
prevailing Wind is East.


Player A's exposed tiles:



High-risk discards:



Full Flush Scenario (包清一色/包字一色)

Player A has 3 or 4 sets of the same suit (bamboo, dots, character or honour) exposed. If Player B discards a
tile of the same suit and Player A uses it to win, Player B pays all winnings.

Example:
Player A's exposed melds:


High-risk discards: Any tile from the same suit as player A's exposed melds.


Pure Green Suit Scenario (包绿一色)

Player A has 3 or 4 sets of the green suit (namely 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 of the bamboo suit, and the Green Dragon)
exposed. If Player B discards a tile of in this suit and Player A uses it to win, Player B pays all winnings.

Example:


Player A's exposed melds:



High-risk discards:


Note: Most Singaporean players do not recognise this hand as a higher-valued hand, and just treat it like a
'Half Flush Hand' (混一色). In this case, 包绿一色 does not come into effect.


Pure Terminals Scenario (包清老头)

Player A has 3 or 4 triplets exposed, all of which are of the terminal number one or nine of any suit. If
Player B discards a tile of the terminal number one or nine, and Player A uses it to win, Player B pays for all
winnings.

Example:


Player A's exposed melds:



High-risk discards:



Of course, realistically, the high-risk discards are just                        since the rest have already

appeared in Player A's exposed melds and can't form either the triplet or pair when he goes Mahjong.


Eighteen Arhats Scenario (包十八罗汉)

When Player A has 3 Kongs revealed, and Player B discards a tile that has not appeared anywhere on the
table (Discard pool & exposed melds), and if Player A manage to perform the 4th Kong and goes Mahjong,
Player B pays for all the winnings.
Fresh Tile Discard (生牌) Scenarios

Definition of 'Fresh tile' (生牌 shēng-pái)

'Fresh tiles' (生牌 shēng-pái) are tiles that have not been discarded.

However, exposed tiles from 'Chow' ( 吃 chī) sets are not considered as 'discarded' tiles. For example, if
Player C has a 'Chow' (吃 chī) set of one-two-three 'Character' (万子wàn-zǐ) exposed, and none other of
these three 'Character' (万子 wàn-zǐ) tiles are not found in the discard pool, then all these three 'Character'
(万子wàn-zǐ) tiles are considered to be 'Fresh' (生shēng) tiles.

As for 'Pong' (碰 pèng) sets are not considered as 'Fresh' (生牌 shēng-pái) tile since someone did discard it
to allow the set to be melded.

There appears to be variants of the "Definition of Fresh" tile among different players as opposed to the one
already mentioned above.

The variants are:

 1. Some players define "fresh" as any tile that is not already present in the discard pool.
 2. while other player define "fresh" to be any tile that is not already exposed somewhere on the
    table.

I.e. to say, if a certain tile is present in one of the melded sets of a player but absent from the discard pool, it
will be considered "fresh" under the definition of the first variant but not under that of the second variant.

As mentioned, it will be wise to agree upon the rules with all playing parties before the below two scenarios
are triggered.


Fresh Tile Discard Kong Scenario (包杠)

There are fewer than 7 tiles remaining in the wall (excluding the last 15 tiles that are meant to be
untouched). If Player B discards a 'Fresh' (生牌 shēng-pái) tile (one not previously discarded) and Player A
performs any Kong (杠 gàng) with that discarded tile, Player B pays all the associated compensation that
Player A should receive. This has no effect on the payout when the game is won. However, if Player A wins
by a 'Winning on Replacement Tile For Kong' ( 杠 上 gàng-shàng) from that discard, Player B will be
responsible to pay for all players.


Fresh Tile Mahjong Scenario (包生)

There are fewer than 5 tiles remaining in the wall (excluding the last 15 tiles that are meant to be
untouched). If Player B discards a 'Fresh' tile and Player A wins the game with that tile, Player B pays all
winnings payable to Player A for the points he has scored. That is, if Player A wins with a 5-point Hand,
Player B will compensate Player A with S$64. Players C and D will not be involved in any payment within
this scenario. The description of 'Fresh' (生 shēng) tiles above applies here.

A simple phrase to help remember the number of the tiles remaining for the 'Fresh' tile discard scenarios is
simply "7 tiles Pao Kong,5 Tiles Pao Fresh" ( 七 张 包 杠 , 五 张 包 生 qī-zhang-bāo-gàng, wǔ-zhang-bāo-
shēng).
There appears to be a variant of the above rule where the number of tiles involved are switched. Thus, for
some players, the 'Fresh' Tile Discard Kong Scenario' comes into play when there are less than 5 tiles
remaining, while the 'Fresh Discard Scenario' comes into play when there are less than 7 tiles remaining.
Thus, the phrase in Note 1 becomes "7 tiles Pao Fresh, 5 Tiles Pao Kong" (七张包生,五张包杠). It will be
wise to agree upon the rules with all playing parties before the scenarios are triggered.

Note: About the 2 'Fresh' tile discard variants above, which is the original version?

Part of the rule: 5 Tiles 'Pao Fresh' (五张包生) in the first version, is also found in Hong Kong, Taiwanese,
South African Mahjong variants etc. This means that it is probably very old and is probably originated from
China. As for why the additional 7 tiles 'Pao Kong' ( 七 张 包 杠 ) is added in Singapore Mahjong, that is
because there is Instant Payment for Kong whereas the above other Mahjong variants don't.

Therefore, "7 tiles Pao Kong, 5 Tiles Pao Fresh" (七张包杠, 五张包生) is probably the original version.

In an event of 'Thirteen Wonders' (十三么), the two above-mentioned 'Fresh' tile discard variants do
not apply in the rules.


Wrong Winning Claim Scenario (诈胡)

A scenario where a player claims he has completed his winning hand but in fact, he has not done so or there
is a mistake in his hand. This scenario is called Fake or Trick Hand (诈胡 zhà-hú).

Usually he will be penalised to pay 5 points or the Limit to the other three players. The discarder will get
double, whereas the other two players get the normal rate. If it is the offender that wrongly claim the
"winning tile" which he drew it himself, i.e.Self-Pick (自摸 zì-mō), then he will pays all the three players
double.

Note 1: Usually the penalty for this scenario is 5 points as most players set the Limit to 5 points, but it will
be wise to confirm with all playing parties beforehand regarding the penalty when this scenario arises
especially when the Limit is more than 5 points.

Note 2: In the shooter pay scenario, a player who has wrongly claimed a winning hand will only need to
compensate the player who discarded the "winning" tile. If he/she has 自摸 the wrong winning tile, he/she
will have to compensate everyone the winnings equivalent to 5 points (plus $2).


Other Penalties

Short Hand (小相公 xiǎo xiàng gōng)

Short Hand is when the offending player has less than 13 tiles in hand, exposed or concealed (Kong is
counted as 3 tiles) .

The penalty will be the offender has forfeited the right to win for the current hand. However, the offender is
still allowed to claim Kong for instant payment because unlike Long Hand, Short Hand reduces the chance
of Kong with instant payment.


Long Hand (大相公 dà xiàng gōng)
Long Hand is when the offending player (i) has more than 13 tiles in hand, exposed or concealed (Kong is
counted as 3 tiles) and/or (ii) has drawn the wrong tile/s from the wall and/or (iii) melded the wrong
discarded tile.

When detected by other player, the penalties will be the offender has forfeited the rights to win and to claim
any Kong for instant payment for the current hand.

Note:

1) For most Mahjong variants, there is no instant payment for Kong. Therefore, their penalty for Long Hand
is only the forfeit of the right to win for the current hand. But for Singapore Mahjong, a mistake that causes
Long Hand actually increase the chance of Kong with instant payment, that is why the forfeit of the right to
claim any Kong is added here so that the offender will not benefit from his mistake.

2) Additional rule Shingou (心狗), an old Japanese Mahjong (Riichi) variant, in the event a player drops a
tile from his/her playing hand on accident onto the floor, the guilty player then loses the tile's ownership and
the proprietary of that tile will be open to other opposing players to claim by picking it up and adding it to
their hand hence revoking both player's winning condition, one having a 大相公 and 小相公. However, this
rule is best confirmed with other players before the match.


Sacred Discard & Missed Discard Prohibition Rules

Singaporean Mahjong uses the Traditional Prohibition Rules concerning Sacred Discard & Missed Discard.


Sacred Discard (回头牌 huí-tóu-pái)

When a player discard a certain tile, it will be the Sacred Discard for that player, because he cannot claim
the same identical tile from other players' discards for the win or 'Pong' (碰 pèng) during the very same go
around.

For example, East player discarded a 3 Bamboo without realising that he had a winning hand with 4555
Bamboo. So when South, West or North players discard a 3 Bamboo, he cannot claim it for the win during
the very same go around, otherwise it will be considered as a 'Fake Hand' (诈胡 zhà-hú)!

But he can still claim 4 or 6 Bamboo for the win during the very same go around and when his turn comes,
he can still 'Self-Pick' (自摸 zì-mō) 3 Bamboo to win since in Singaporean Mahjong, one does not need to
reveal the 'Self-Pick' (自摸 zì-mō) tile.

Whilst the above is the general position, there might be some dispute as to whether the East Player could
really claim the 6 Bamboo, as by discarding 3 Bamboo, the other players may likely consider throwing 6
Bamboo as a safe tile. This problem is likely to arise when forming the Sequence Hand (平胡). Hence, it
will be wise to agree upon the rules with all playing parties before the scenarios are triggered.


Missed Discard (过水牌 guò-shuǐ-pái)

When a player misses a chance to claim a certain tile when another player discards it, he cannot claim the
same identical tile from the other players' discards for the win or 'Pong' (碰 pèng) during the very same go
around.

For example, East player has "4555 Bamboo" in his hand, South player discarded a 3 Bamboo. East player
did not claim it. So when West or North players discard the very same 3 Bamboo during the very same go
around, East player is prohibited to claim for the win, otherwise it will be considered as a 'Fake Hand' (诈胡
zhà-hú)!

But he can still claim 4 or 6 Bamboo for the win during the very same go around and when his turn comes,
he can still 'Self-Pick' (自摸 zì-mō) 3 Bamboo to win.

Note: There might be some dispute with the Sacred & Missed Discards especially with "the very same go
around". For example, East player misses the chance to claim it, that tile should be either the Sacred or
Missed Discard for East player.

Note: In the event where a player is waiting for two different tiles to win (not under the sequence hand), for
example, 4 bamboo and white dragon, and the same player missed a discarded tile (say, 4 bamboo), the same
player would be entitled to win the game if another player discards the other winning tile (the white dragon)
in the same go around. This is because only the tile that the player has missed (4 bamboo) has become a
"missed discard".

Unless the rule is change from "Sacred & Missed Discards only valid within the very same go around" to
'Only valid till his next turn", then the above scenarios, East player is not allowed to claim it.

As mentioned, it will be wise to agree upon the rules with all playing parties before the scenarios are
triggered.

See also
    Mahjong
    Scoring in Mahjong


References
 1. "Rules for Singapore Mahjong" (http://www.singaporemahjong.com/rules/).
    www.singaporemahjong.com. 13 Wonders Entertainment. Retrieved 11 October 2017.


External links
    Rules for Singapore Mahjong and Free Computer Game (http://www.singaporemahjong.com/)

Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Singaporean_Mahjong_scoring_rules&oldid=944407392"


This page was last edited on 7 March 2020, at 17:49 (UTC).

Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this
site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia
Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
